Finish first pass (WIP) (#4)
ethereum/eth2.0-onboarding: docs/phase_0.md

    attestations: List[Attestation, MAX_ATTESTATIONS]
    deposits: List[Deposit, MAX_DEPOSITS]
    voluntary_exits: List[SignedVoluntaryExit, MAX_VOLUNTARY_EXITS]
```

It has eight fields:

* `randao_reveal` - the `BLSSignature` of the current epoch (by the current block proposer). Constitutes the seed for randomness when mixed in with the other proposers' reveals.
* `eth1_data` - a vote on recent data from the Eth1 chain. It consists of the following fields:
    * `deposit_root` - the SSZ List `hash_tree_root` of all of the deposits in the deposit contract
    * `deposit_count` - the number of successful validator deposits that have been made into the deposit contract so far
    * `block_hash` - the eth1 block hash that contains the `deposit_root`. This `block_hash` is intended to be used for finalization of the Eth1 chain in the future
 * `graffiti` - 32 bytes for validators to decorate as they choose with no defined in-protocol use
 * `proposer_slashings`, `attester_slashings`, `attestations`, `deposits`, `voluntary_exits` are all lists (with max lengths) -- one for each operation type -- that can be included into the `BeaconBlockBody`

#### `SignedBeaconBlock`

> `SignedBeaconBlock` is a signed wrapper of `BeaconBlock` that allows for the proposer's signature to be added to a block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SignedBeaconBlock` is a signed wrapper of `BeaconBlock` that allows for the proposer's signature to be transmitted with a block.
```

    # Finality
    justification_bits: Bitvector[JUSTIFICATION_BITS_LENGTH]  # Bit set for every recent justified epoch
    previous_justified_checkpoint: Checkpoint  # Previous epoch snapshot
    current_justified_checkpoint: Checkpoint
    finalized_checkpoint: Checkpoint
```

It has 20 fields. The following are descriptions of the fields grouped into logical units:

* Fork Versioning
    * `genesis_time` -- tracks the Unix timestamp during which the genesis slot occurred. This allows a client to calculate what the current slot should be according to [wall-clock time](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Elapsed_real_time)
    * `slot` -- tracks the slot of the containing state. Note that this isn't necessarily the same as the slot according to the local wall-clock. Remember that time is divided into slots of fixed length (`SECONDS_PER_SLOT`) in which actions occur and state transitions happen
    * `fork` -- a mechanism for handling forking (upgrading) the beacon chain. The main purpose here is to handle versioning of signatures and handle objects of different signatures across fork boundaries
* History

>     * `latest_block_header` -- a cache of the latest block header seen in the chain defining this state. During the slot transition of the block, the state `Root` (a 32 byte vector) in the header is stored with an empty placeholder (`0x00..00`) instead of the real state root. At the start of the _next slot_ transition -- before anything has been modified within state -- the real state root is calculated and added to the `latest_block_header`. We do this to prevent the state root from being embedded in the block header while the block header is part of the state -- the state root is a hash and we can’t embed an object's hash into itself without changing that object's hash (what we call a circular dependency). The placeholder allows us to reference the state root within the beacon state and get around this circular dependency.

Reviewer: Slight modification here. Still a little tough to convey succinctly. That's not surprising as this dance with the placeholder to avoid the circular dependency was pretty hard to come up with!

```suggestion
    * `latest_block_header` -- a cache of the latest block header seen in the chain defining this state. During the slot transition of the block, the state `Root` (a 32 byte vector) in the header is stored with an empty placeholder (`0x00..00`) instead of the real state root. At the start of the _next slot_ transition -- before anything has been modified within state -- the real state root of the previous slot is calculated and added to the `latest_block_header`. We do this to prevent the state root from being embedded in the block header while the block header is part of the same slot's state -- the state root is a hash and we can’t embed an object's hash into itself without changing that object's hash (what we call a circular dependency). The placeholder allows us to insert the state root within header within the beacon state at a subsequent slot to get around this circular dependency.
```

Author: ```suggestion
    * `latest_block_header` -- a cache of the latest block header seen in the chain defining this state. During the slot transition of the block, the state `Root` (a 32 byte vector) in the header is stored with an empty placeholder (`0x00..00`) instead of the real state root. At the start of the _next slot_ transition -- before anything has been modified within state -- the real state root of the previous slot is calculated and added to the `latest_block_header`. We do this to prevent the state root from being embedded in the block header while the block header is part of the same slot's state -- the state root is a hash and we can’t embed an object's hash into itself without changing that object's hash (what we call a circular dependency). The placeholder helps us get around this circular dependency by allowing us to insert the state root in the header within the beacon state at a subsequent slot.  
```

>Note: state transitions that trigger an unhandled exception (e.g. a failed assert or an out-of-range list access) are considered invalid.

### `state_transition`

[`state_transition`](https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-specs/blob/v0.10.0/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#beacon-chain-state-transition-function) is the top level function of the state transition. It accepts a pre-state and a signed beacon block, and outputs a post-state.

```python
def state_transition(state: BeaconState, signed_block: SignedBeaconBlock, validate_result: bool=True) -> BeaconState:
    block = signed_block.message
    # Process slots (including those with no blocks) since block
    process_slots(state, block.slot)
    # Verify signature
    if validate_result:
        assert verify_block_signature(state, signed_block)
    # Process block
    process_block(state, block)
    # Verify state root
    if validate_result:
        assert block.state_root == hash_tree_root(state)
    # Return post-state
    return state
```

> During the production of a block, its state-root is computed by running the transition with the candidate block, while disabling its validation. The state-root of the block is then updated, and the block is signed. Block production is explained in greater detail in the [Validator spec](https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-specs/blob/v0.10.0/specs/phase0/validator.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the production of a block, its state-root is computed by running the transition with the candidate block, while disabling its validation (i.e. `validate_result = False`). The state-root of the block is then updated, and the block is signed. Block production is explained in greater detail in the [Validator spec](https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-specs/blob/v0.10.0/specs/phase0/validator.md).
```

### Slot processing

Slot processing occurs at the start of every slot.

> >Definition: a slot is a period of time in which a block proposer proposes a block for attestation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>Definition: a slot is a period of time in which a block proposer proposes a block and a set of committees attest to it.
```

### `process_slots`

> `process_slots` is the first component of the state transition function. It handles all of the state updates that happen at each slot (for all blocks proposed in that slot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`process_slots` is the first component of the state transition function. It handles the set of state updates that happen at each slot.
```

Reviewer: There is only an opportunity for a single block to be proposed at each slot. The nuance here is that slots can be skipped

> >Note: in optimal operation, a single `BeaconBlock` is proposed each slot by the selected proposer from the current epoch's active validator set. However, it's possible that more than one may be proposed.

Reviewer: The note should be able slots being able to be skipped within a chain, rather than multiple blocks for the same slot
```suggestion
>Note: in optimal operation, a single `BeaconBlock` is proposed each slot by the selected proposer from the current epoch's active validator set. However, the assigned proposer can fail to propose in a timely manner, resulting in a *skipped* slot.
```

> Definition: an epoch consists of multiple slots (currently 32) after which validators are reshuffled into different committees.

### `process_epoch`

`process_epoch` is the primary container function that calls the rest of the epoch processing sub-functions. It's only called at epoch boundaries. 

>Note: because `state.slot` has not yet been incremented during the conditional check in `process_slots`, epoch transitions occur at the state transition defined by the `slot` at the start of the epoch (`slot % SLOTS_PER_EPOCH == 0`)

```python
def process_epoch(state: BeaconState) -> None:
    process_justification_and_finalization(state)
    process_rewards_and_penalties(state)
    process_registry_updates(state)
    # @process_reveal_deadlines
    # @process_challenge_deadlines
    process_slashings(state)
    # @update_period_committee
    process_final_updates(state)
    # @after_process_final_updates
```

>Note: when `process_epoch` is run inside `process_slot`, `state.slot` is still equal to the previous slot (`slot % EPOCH_LENGTH == EPOCH_LENGTH - 1`), since it is only incremented afterwards.

#### Justification and Finalization

> Everything related to justification and finalisation is  handled by `process_justification_and_finalization`.

Reviewer: Remove extra space
```suggestion
Everything related to justification and finalisation is handled by `process_justification_and_finalization`.
```

2. That the epochs between source and target are also justified (if any exist).

If these conditions are satisfied, the source is finalized. Note that we only consider `k=1` and `k=2` finality rules discussed in [section 4.4.3 of the draft paper](https://github.com/ethereum/research/blob/master/papers/ffg%2Bghost/paper.pdf).

#### Rewards and Penalties

Everything related to rewards and penalties is handled by [`process_rewards_and_penalties`](https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-specs/blob/v0.10.0/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#rewards-and-penalties-1). Specifically, this is where all of the rewards and penalties collected from the previous epoch are applied to validator balances.

#### `process_rewards_and_penalties`

```python
def process_rewards_and_penalties(state: BeaconState) -> None:
    if get_current_epoch(state) == GENESIS_EPOCH:
        return

    rewards, penalties = get_attestation_deltas(state)
    for index in range(len(state.validators)):
        increase_balance(state, ValidatorIndex(index), rewards[index])
        decrease_balance(state, ValidatorIndex(index), penalties[index])
```

> Since attestations are given up to one epoch to be included, rewards from attestations are not processed until the end of the following epoch. Due to this, rewards and penalties are skipped during the `GENESIS_EPOCH`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since attestations are given up to one epoch to be included on chain, rewards from attestations are not processed until the end of the following epoch. Due to this, rewards and penalties are skipped during the `GENESIS_EPOCH`.
```

In Phase 0, rewards and penalties are collected from `get_attestation_deltas` which returns the rewards and penalties for each validator as tuples of lists. Rewards and penalties are separated to avoid signed integers.

Individual rewards are scaled by both the validator's `effective_balance` and $\frac{1}{\sqrt{TotalBalance}}$. See [the design rationale](https://notes.ethereum.org/s/rkhCgQteN#Base-rewards) for an explanation of why this is the case. 

> Note that we use a unit of account called `base_reward`  to keep track of the rewards and/or penalties associated with each of the components of a validator's duties.

Reviewer: Remove extra space

```suggestion
Note that we use a unit of account called `base_reward` to keep track of the rewards and/or penalties associated with each of the components of a validator's duties.
```

    if finality_delay > MIN_EPOCHS_TO_INACTIVITY_PENALTY:
        matching_target_attesting_indices = get_unslashed_attesting_indices(state, matching_target_attestations)
        for index in eligible_validator_indices:
            penalties[index] += Gwei(BASE_REWARDS_PER_EPOCH * get_base_reward(state, index))
            if index not in matching_target_attesting_indices:
                effective_balance = state.validators[index].effective_balance
                penalties[index] += Gwei(effective_balance * finality_delay // INACTIVITY_PENALTY_QUOTIENT)

    return rewards, penalties
```

It does the following:

* For validators that are either active or slashed but not yet withdrawable:

    * **Reward for FFG Source, Target & Head**: If the validator's source, target, or head from any included attestation made in the previous epoch matches the current source, target, or head of the previous epoch, issue a `base_reward` scaled by the fraction of active validators also attesting to this correct value; otherwise issue a `base_reward` penalty. There is a maximum reward of `3 * base_reward` reward (one for each correct value).

>     * **Reward for attestation inclusion speed**: Find the most recent included attestation for each validator. If such an attestation exists, give one `base_reward` split between the proposer and the included validator. Give the proposer a small reward --`base_reward` (relative to the included validator) divided by `PROPOSER_REWARD_QUOTIENT` -- for including the attestation. Give the remaining portion of the `base_reward` to the included validator but scale it in proportion to how quickly the attestation was included.

Reviewer: It's the earliest included. Most recent implies later slot to me but it's filtered by earlier slots

```suggestion
    * **Reward for attestation inclusion speed**: Find the earliest included attestation for each validator. If such an attestation exists, give one `base_reward` split between the proposer and the included validator. Give the proposer a small reward --`base_reward` (relative to the included validator) divided by `PROPOSER_REWARD_QUOTIENT` -- for including the attestation. Give the remaining portion of the `base_reward` to the included validator but scale it in proportion to how quickly the attestation was included.
```

    # Process activation eligibility and ejections
    for index, validator in enumerate(state.validators):
        if is_eligible_for_activation_queue(validator):
            validator.activation_eligibility_epoch = get_current_epoch(state) + 1

        if is_active_validator(validator, get_current_epoch(state)) and validator.effective_balance <= EJECTION_BALANCE:
            initiate_validator_exit(state, ValidatorIndex(index))

    # Queue validators eligible for activation and not yet dequeued for activation
    activation_queue = sorted([
        index for index, validator in enumerate(state.validators)
        if is_eligible_for_activation(state, validator)
        # Order by the sequence of activation_eligibility_epoch setting and then index
    ], key=lambda index: (state.validators[index].activation_eligibility_epoch, index))
    # Dequeued validators for activation up to churn limit
    for index in activation_queue[:get_validator_churn_limit(state)]:
        validator = state.validators[index]
        validator.activation_epoch = compute_activation_exit_epoch(get_current_epoch(state))
```

It handles the following:

> * Validators whose `effective_balance` are sufficient to be activated (`== MAX_EFFECTIVE_BALANCE`) but that have not yet been added to the queue (`activation_eligibility_epoch == FAR_FUTURE_EPOCH`), are assigned as eligible for activation starting from the next epoch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Validators whose `effective_balance` is sufficient to be activated (`== MAX_EFFECTIVE_BALANCE`) but that have not yet been added to the queue (`activation_eligibility_epoch == FAR_FUTURE_EPOCH`), are assigned as eligible for activation starting from the next epoch
```

Author: ```suggestion
* Validators who have a sufficient `effective_balance` to be activated (`== MAX_EFFECTIVE_BALANCE`) but that have not yet been added to the queue (`activation_eligibility_epoch == FAR_FUTURE_EPOCH`), are assigned as eligible for activation starting from the next epoch
```

> * Validators whose `effective_balance` are too low (`<= EJECTION_BALANCE`) are ejected (added to the withdrawal queue)

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure "is" is correct. "is" here is in relation to the singular "effective_balance", while "are" (following `EJECTION_BALANCE` is in relation to the plural "Active validators"

```suggestion
* Active validators whose `effective_balance` is too low (`<= EJECTION_BALANCE`) are ejected (added to the withdrawal queue)
```

Author: ```suggestion
* Validators who have too low an `effective_balance` (`<= EJECTION_BALANCE`) are ejected (added to the withdrawal queue)
```

Author: reworded to make it sound less awkward

            validator.effective_balance = min(balance - balance % EFFECTIVE_BALANCE_INCREMENT, MAX_EFFECTIVE_BALANCE)
    # Reset slashings
    state.slashings[next_epoch % EPOCHS_PER_SLASHINGS_VECTOR] = Gwei(0)
    # Set randao mix
    state.randao_mixes[next_epoch % EPOCHS_PER_HISTORICAL_VECTOR] = get_randao_mix(state, current_epoch)
    # Set historical root accumulator
    if next_epoch % (SLOTS_PER_HISTORICAL_ROOT // SLOTS_PER_EPOCH) == 0:
        historical_batch = HistoricalBatch(block_roots=state.block_roots, state_roots=state.state_roots)
        state.historical_roots.append(hash_tree_root(historical_batch))
    # Rotate current/previous epoch attestations
    state.previous_epoch_attestations = state.current_epoch_attestations
    state.current_epoch_attestations = []
```

It takes care of the following:

* Reset eth1 data votes if we are at the start of a new voting period
* Recalculate effective balances of all validators (using hysteresis)
* Set slashed balances for next epoch to 0
* Set the resulting randao mix from the current epoch as the base randao mix in the next epoch

> * (Potentially) append historic batch to historical root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Append historic batch to historical root if at the end of an accumulation period
```

* Move `current_epoch_attestations` to `previous` and empty  `current`

### Block Processing

> Block processing occurs every time the `state_transition` function is called.

Reviewer: Block processing _only_ occurs at slots where there is a block. In other words, block processing is skipped for skip slots.

Author: Is it still correct to say it occurs every time the `state_transition` function is called? Or should we cut this?

### `process_block`

[`process_block`](https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-shttps://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-specs/blob/v0.10.0/specs/phase0/beacon-chain.md#block-processing) is the main function that calls the sub-functions of block processing. 

```python
def process_block(state: BeaconState, block: BeaconBlock) -> None:
    process_block_header(state, block)
    process_randao(state, block.body)
    process_eth1_data(state, block.body)
    process_operations(state, block.body)
```

> If any asserts or exceptions are thrown during block processing, then the block is seen as invalid and should be discarded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any asserts fail or exceptions are thrown during block processing, then the block is seen as invalid and should be discarded.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If any asserts fail, or if any exceptions are thrown during block processing, then the block is seen as invalid and should be discarded.
```

                    slashed_index: ValidatorIndex,
                    whistleblower_index: ValidatorIndex=None) -> None:
    """
    Slash the validator with index ``slashed_index``.
    """
    epoch = get_current_epoch(state)
    initiate_validator_exit(state, slashed_index)
    validator = state.validators[slashed_index]
    validator.slashed = True
    validator.withdrawable_epoch = max(validator.withdrawable_epoch, Epoch(epoch + EPOCHS_PER_SLASHINGS_VECTOR))
    state.slashings[epoch % EPOCHS_PER_SLASHINGS_VECTOR] += validator.effective_balance
    decrease_balance(state, slashed_index, validator.effective_balance // MIN_SLASHING_PENALTY_QUOTIENT)

    # Apply proposer and whistleblower rewards
    proposer_index = get_beacon_proposer_index(state)
    if whistleblower_index is None:
        whistleblower_index = proposer_index
    whistleblower_reward = Gwei(validator.effective_balance // WHISTLEBLOWER_REWARD_QUOTIENT)
    proposer_reward = Gwei(whistleblower_reward // PROPOSER_REWARD_QUOTIENT)
    increase_balance(state, proposer_index, proposer_reward)
    increase_balance(state, whistleblower_index, whistleblower_reward - proposer_reward)
```

##### Attester Slashings

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* That `attestation_1.data` and `attestation_2.data` are slashable if they turn out to be what we call either a *double* or *surround* vote (this is checked by `is_slashable_attestation_data(attestation_1.data, attestation_2.data`):
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra space

```suggestion
- Even though the state transition may still be valid, the `Validator` is not allocated to the registry if the signature is invalid. Note that a user's signature may well be invalid, since it is not checked in the deposit contract.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When handling deposits from validators that already exist (in other words, in the case where the `pubkey` specified in the `Deposit` already exists in the registry):
```

> 

Reviewer: One additional condition is that the validator has not _yet_ exited (`assert validator.exit_epoch == FAR_FUTURE_EPOCH`)

```suggestion
Voluntary exits are the most straightforward operation: conditional on being active and having served for sufficient time, a validator can *opt in* to stop his or her duties at any time.
```
